Add getting started content (#6834)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _getting-started/intro.md

- Document 1 : "Beauty is in the eye of the beholder"
- Document 2: "Beauty and the beast"

An inverted index for such an index maps the words to the documents where they occur:

Word | Document
:--- | :---
beauty | 1, 2
is | 1
in | 1
the | 1, 2
eye | 1
of | 1
the | 1
beholder | 1
and | 2
beast | 2 

In addition to the document ID, OpenSearch stores the position of the word within that document for phrase queries, where words must appear next to each other.

## Relevance

When searching for documents using a phrase, you need to make sure that the words you are searching for are _relevant_. For example, the word `the` appears in most English phrases but searching for this word is meaningless. OpenSearch determines the relevance of a term by calculating two values:

- _Term frequency_: how often a word appears in the document
- _Document frequency_:  how often a word appears in all documents 

The relevance of a word is calculated as $$ relevance = { \text {term frequency} \over \text {document frequency} }. $$ This score is called term frequency/inverse document frequency (TF/IDF). For more information, see [TF/IDF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf).

> OpenSearch uses the BM25 ranking algorithm to calculate relevance scores and returns the results sorted by relevance. To learn more, see [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25).

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch uses the BM25 ranking algorithm to calculate document relevance scores and returns the results sorted by relevance. To learn more, see [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25).
```

> OpenSearch uses the BM25 ranking algorithm to calculate document relevance scores and returns the results sorted by relevance. To learn more, see [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25).

Author: Perfect, thank you! Updated.

## Clusters and nodes

OpenSearch is designed to be a distributed search engine. OpenSearch can run on one or more _nodes_---servers that store your data and process search requests. An OpenSearch *cluster* is a collection of nodes. 

You can run OpenSearch locally on a laptop---its system requirements are minimal---but you can also scale a single cluster to hundreds of powerful machines in a data center.

In a single-node cluster, such as a laptop, one machine has to do everything: manage the state of the cluster, index and search data, and perform any preprocessing of data prior to indexing it. As a cluster grows, however, you can subdivide responsibilities. Nodes with fast disks and plenty of RAM might be great at indexing and searching data, whereas a node with plenty of CPU power and a tiny disk could manage cluster state. 

In each cluster, there is an elected _cluster manager_ node, which orchestrates cluster-level operations, such as creating an index. Nodes communicate with each other, so if your request is routed to a node, that node sends requests to appropriate nodes, gathers the nodes' responses, and returns the final response.

> For more information about setting node types, see [Cluster formation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/cluster/).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about other node types, see [Cluster formation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/cluster/).
```

## Shards

> OpenSearch splits indexes into *shards*. Each shard stores a subset of all documents in an index, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer: Italicized for consistency with the formatting of other terms.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/intro/index-shard.png" alt="An index is split into shards" width="450">

> Shards are used for even distribution across nodes in a cluster. For example, a 400-GB index might be too large for any single node in your cluster to handle, but split into ten shards, each one 40 GB, OpenSearch can distribute the shards across ten nodes and work with each shard individually. For example, consider a cluster with two indexes: index 1 and index 2. Index 1 is split into 2 shards, and index 2 is split into 4 shards. The shards are distributed across nodes 1 and 2, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shards are used for even distribution across nodes in a cluster. For example, a 400-GB index might be too large for any single node in your cluster to handle, but split into 10 shards, each one 40 GB, OpenSearch can distribute the shards across ten nodes and work with each shard individually. For example, consider a cluster with two indexes: index 1 and index 2. Index 1 is split into 2 shards, and index 2 is split into 4 shards. The shards are distributed across nodes 1 and 2, as shown in the following image.
```

> Shards are used for even distribution across nodes in a cluster. For example, a 400-GB index might be too large for any single node in your cluster to handle, but split into ten shards, each one 40 GB, OpenSearch can distribute the shards across ten nodes and work with each shard individually. For example, consider a cluster with two indexes: index 1 and index 2. Index 1 is split into 2 shards, and index 2 is split into 4 shards. The shards are distributed across nodes 1 and 2, as shown in the following image.

Author: ```suggestion
Shards are used for even distribution across nodes in a cluster. For example, a 400-GB index might be too large for any single node in your cluster to handle, but split into ten shards, each one 40 GB, OpenSearch can distribute the shards across ten nodes and work with each shard individually. Consider a cluster with two indexes: index 1 and index 2. Index 1 is split into 2 shards, and index 2 is split into 4 shards. The shards are distributed across nodes 1 and 2, as shown in the following image.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/intro/cluster.png" alt="A cluster containing two indexes and two nodes" width="650">

Despite being a piece of an OpenSearch index, each shard is actually a full Lucene index---confusing, we know. This detail is important, though, because each instance of Lucene is a running process that consumes CPU and memory. More shards is not necessarily better. Splitting a 400 GB index into 1,000 shards, for example, would place needless strain on your cluster. A good rule of thumb is to keep shard size as 10--50 GB.

## Primary and replica shards

> In OpenSearch, shards may be _primary_ (the original) or _replica_ (a copy). By default, OpenSearch creates a replica shard for each primary shard. Thus, if you split your index into ten shards, OpenSearch creates ten replica shards. For example, consider a cluster described in the previous section. If you add one replica for each shard of each index in the cluster, your cluster will contain a total of 2 shards and 2 replicas for index 1 and 4 shards and 4 replicas for index 2, as shown in the following image. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenSearch, shards may be _primary_ (the original) or _replica_ (a copy). By default, OpenSearch creates a replica shard for each primary shard. Thus, if you split your index into 10 shards, OpenSearch creates 10 replica shards. For example, consider a cluster described in the previous section. If you add one replica for each shard of each index in the cluster, your cluster will contain a total of 2 shards and 2 replicas for index 1 and 4 shards and 4 replicas for index 2, as shown in the following image. 
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/intro/cluster-replicas.png" alt="A cluster containing two indexes with one replica shard for each shard in the index" width="700">

These replica shards act as backups in the event of a node failure---OpenSearch distributes replica shards to different nodes than their corresponding primary shards---but they also improve the speed at which the cluster processes search requests. You might specify more than one replica per index for a search-heavy workload.

## Advanced concepts

The following section describes more advanced OpenSearch concepts.

### Translog

Any index changes, such as document indexing or deletion, are written to disk during a Lucene commit. However, Lucene commits are expensive operations, so they cannot be performed after every change to the index. Instead, each shard records every indexing operation in a transaction log called _translog_. When a document is indexed, it is added to the memory buffer and recorded in the translog. After a process or host restart, any data in the in-memory buffer is lost. Recording the document in the translog ensures durability because the translog is written to disk.

> Frequent refresh operations write the documents in the memory buffer to a segment and then clear the memory buffer. Periodically, a [flush](#flush) performs a Lucene commit, which includes writing the segments to disk using `fsync`, purging the old translog, and starting a new translog. Thus, a translog contains all operations that have not yet been flushed.

Reviewer 2: I feel like this might be getting too detailed while muddying the key thing that users might need to know ("When is my data durable? When is my data searchable?").

I think we could say something like:
> An indexing or bulk call responds when the documents have been written to the translog and the translog is flushed to disk, so the updates are durable. The updates will be visible from search requests until after a _refresh_ operation (see below).

I almost feel like it would help to document these as steps in the lifecycle of an update, like:
1. An update is received by a primary shard and gets written to the shard's transaction log, which is flushed to disk (followed by an `fsync`) before the update is acknowledged. This guarantees durability.
2. The update is also passed to the Lucene index writer, which adds it to an in-memory buffer.
3. On refresh, the Lucene index writer flushes the in-memory buffers to disk (with each buffer becoming a new Lucene segment), and a new index reader is opened over the resulting segment files. The updates are now visible for search.
4. On a _flush_ operation, the shard `fsync`s the Lucene segments. Since the segment files are a durable representation of the updates, the translog is no longer needed to provide durability, do the updates can be purged from the translog.

If the OpenSearch process is terminated between the end of step 1 (when the update has been acknowledged) and the end of step 4 (when the updated Lucene segments have been flushed to disk), the updates will be replayed from the translog when the process restarts.

@smacrakis -- we talked briefly about this content. Is the above clearer or still too in-the-weeds?

### Refresh

Periodically, OpenSearch performs a _refresh_ operation, which writes the documents from the in-memory Lucene index to files. These files are not guaranteed to be durable because an `fsync` is not performed. A refresh makes documents available for search.

### Flush

A _flush_ operation persists the files to disk using `fsync`, ensuring durability. Flushing ensures that the data stored only in the translog is recorded in the Lucene index. OpenSearch performs a flush as needed to ensure that the translog does not grow too large.

### Merge

In OpenSearch, a shard is a Lucene index, which consists of _segments_ (or segment files). Segments store the indexed data and are immutable. Periodically, smaller segments are merged into larger ones. Merging reduces the overall number of segments on each shard, frees up disk space, and improves search performance. Eventually, segments reach a maximum size specified in the merge policy and are no longer merged into larger segments. The merge policy also specifies how often merges are performed. 

## Next steps

> - Learn how to quickly install OpenSearch in [Installation quickstart]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/getting-started/quickstart/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to install OpenSearch within in minutes in [Installation quickstart]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/getting-started/quickstart/).
```

---
layout: default

> title: Intro to OpenSearch

Author: This is for left nav so I'd like to have a shorter version there. The page title is "introduction"

nav_order: 2
has_math: true
redirect_from: 
 - /intro/
---

# Introduction to OpenSearch

OpenSearch is a distributed search and analytics engine that supports various use cases, from implementing a search box on a website to analyzing security data for threat detection. The term _distributed_ means you can run OpenSearch on multiple computers. _Search and analytics_ means you can search and analyze your data once you ingest it into OpenSearch. Whether your data is geographic or genetic, you can store and analyze it using OpenSearch.

## Document

A _document_ is a unit that stores information (text or structured data). In OpenSearch, documents are stored in [JSON](https://www.json.org/) format. 

You can think of a document in several ways:

- In a database of students, a document might represent one student.
- When you search for information, OpenSearch returns documents related to your search.

> - If you're familiar with traditional databases, a document represents a row.

Author: ```suggestion
- A document represents a row in a traditional database.
```

For example, in a school database, a document might represent one student and contain the following data.

ID | Name | GPA | Graduation year | 
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | 
1 | John Doe | 3.89 | 2022 | 

Here is what this document looks like in JSON format:

```json
{
  "name": "John Doe",
  "gpa": 3.89,
  "grad_year": 2022
}
```

You'll learn about how document IDs are assigned in [Indexing documents]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/getting-started/communicate/#indexing-documents).

## Index

An _index_ is a collection of documents. 

You can think of an index in several ways:

> - If you have a collection of encyclopedia articles, an index represents the whole collection.

Author: ```suggestion
- In a database of students, an index represents all students in the database.
```

- When you search for information, you query data contained in an index.

> - If you're familiar with traditional databases, a document represents a database table.

Author: ```suggestion
- An index represents a database table in a traditional database.
```

> For example, in a school database, an index might contain all students in the school.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, in a school database, an index might contain information about all students in the school.
```

ID | Name | GPA | Graduation year 
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 
1 | John Doe | 3.89 | 2022
2 | Jonathan Powers | 3.85 | 2025
3 | Jane Doe | 3.52 | 2024

## Clusters and nodes

> OpenSearch is designed to be a distributed search engine. OpenSearch can run on one or more _nodes_---servers that store your data and process search requests. An OpenSearch *cluster* is a collection of nodes. 

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch is designed to be a distributed search engine, meaning that it can run on one or more _nodes_---servers that store your data and process search requests. An OpenSearch *cluster* is a collection of nodes. 
```

> You can run OpenSearch locally on a laptop---its system requirements are minimal---but you can also scale a single cluster to hundreds of powerful machines in a data center.

Author: Intentionally (because it represents the least amount of resources needed).

In addition to the document ID, OpenSearch stores the position of the word within that document for phrase queries, where words must appear next to each other.

## Relevance

When you search for a document, OpenSearch matches the words in the query to the words in the documents. For example, if you search the index described in the previous section for the word `beauty`, OpenSearch will return documents 1 and 2. Each document is assigned a _relevance score_ that tells you how well the document matched the query.

Individual words in a search query are called search _terms_. Each search term is scored according to the following rules:

1. A search term that occurs more frequently in a document will tend to score higher. A document about dogs that uses the word `dog` many times is likely more relevant than a document that contains the word `dog` fewer times. This is the _term frequency_ component of the score.

1. A search term that occurs in more documents will tend to score lower. A query for the terms `blue` and `axolotl` should prefer documents that contain `axolotl` over the likely more common word `blue`. This is the _inverse document frequency_ component of the score.

> 1. A match on a longer document should tend to score lower than a match on a shorter document. A document that contains a full dictionary would match on any word, but is not very relevant to any particular word. This corresponds to the _length normalization_ component of the score.

Author: I think "match on" is better

OpenSearch uses the BM25 ranking algorithm to calculate document relevance scores and then returns the results sorted by relevance. To learn more, see [Okapi BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25).

## Advanced concepts

The following section describes more advanced OpenSearch concepts.

### Update lifecycle

The lifecycle of an update operation consists of the following steps:

1. An update is received by a primary shard and is written to the shard's transaction log ([translog](#translog)). The translog is flushed to disk (followed by an fsync) before the update is acknowledged. This guarantees durability.
1. The update is also passed to the Lucene index writer, which adds it to an in-memory buffer.

> 1. On a [refresh operation](#refresh), the Lucene index writer flushes the in-memory buffers to disk (with each buffer becoming a new Lucene segment), and a new index reader is opened over the resulting segment files. The updates are now visible for search.

Reviewer 3: Is "over" the right preposition here?

Reviewer 2: It's the word that I've heard Lucene developers use, because an IndexReader is like a moving window providing a view "over" a set of segments.

Maybe "with" would make more sense to a casual reader? That doesn't sound quite right, though...

Author: Thanks! I'll keep "over"

> 1. On a [flush operation](#flush), the shard fsyncs the Lucene segments. Because the segment files are a durable representation of the updates, the translog is no longer needed to provide durability, do the updates can be purged from the translog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. On a [flush operation](#flush), the shard fsyncs the Lucene segments. Because the segment files are a durable representation of the updates, the translog is no longer needed to provide durability, so the updates can be purged from the translog.
```

### Translog

> An indexing or bulk call responds when the documents have been written to the translog and the translog is flushed to disk, so the updates are durable. The updates will be visible from search requests until after a [refresh operation](#refresh).

Reviewer 3: Is "from" the right preposition here?

Reviewer 2: "to" is probably better

Also, the word "not" is missing -- The updates will **not** be visible to search requests until after a refresh operation.

> An indexing or bulk call responds when the documents have been written to the translog and the translog is flushed to disk, so the updates are durable. The updates will be visible from search requests until after a [refresh operation](#refresh).

Author: ```suggestion
An indexing or bulk call responds when the documents have been written to the translog and the translog is flushed to disk, so the updates are durable. The updates will not be visible to search requests until after a [refresh operation](#refresh).
```
